docs: guide documentation for the node (#167)
RequestNetwork/requestNetwork: packages/docs/docs/guides/6-hosting-a-node/2-code.md

---
title: Running from the code repository
keywords: [Request node, test, ganache, local node]
---

If you can't use Docker or you want to run your node locally, from the source code, you can follow the steps in this document.
Running the Node in this way is useful for debugging and developing the Node itself.

> # TODO Running fully locally

Reviewer: `TODO`

What's missing ?

To run a Request Node locally for tests, make sure you have the necessary IPFS and Ethereum nodes available.

You can run the following steps to launch a fully local test Request Node.

## Cloning the repository

Let's clone the repository, install and build dependencies:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/RequestNetwork/requestNetwork.git
cd requestNetwork
yarn install
yarn build
```

You are ready to run the local test node. You will need three different consoles for Ethereum, IPFS and Request.

## Launching IPFS locally

First, make sure you [installed IPFS](https://docs.ipfs.io/guides/guides/install/) locally.

> Now you need to configure your IPFS. We have a script to make it easy for you:

Reviewer: Precise that it allows to use our dedicated IPFS network

```bash
cd packages/request-node
yarn init-ipfs
```

Now you can run IPFS with:

```bash
ipfs daemon
```

> ## Running a local Ethereum test network

Reviewer 2: we could add documentation to run our custom ganache image:
```
docker run --name ganache -d -p 8545:8545 requestnetwork/ganache
```

If you want to debug and test, you may be interested by using a local Ethereum network.
Install and run [ganache-cli](https://github.com/trufflesuite/ganache-cli) using:

> ```bash

Reviewer 3: You can run a node from the code to make it work with Mainnet or RInkeby.
Here, It sounds like it's only for local test.

yarn global add ganache-cli
cd packages/smart-contracts
yarn ganache
```

> Now you have ganache running on your second console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now you have ganache-cli running on your second console.
```

> We're still missing all the important smart-contracts request use. On a new console, run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We're still missing all the important smart-contracts that Request uses. On a new console, run:
```
